computing-needs-all-voices
order-of-operations
simple-data-types
contracts-strings-images
function-composition
defining-values
transform-compose-images
project-flags
functions-make-life-easier
functions-vertical-line-test
function-notation
functions-examples-definitions
functions-can-be-linear
function-definition-linear
functions-dr
debugging
inequalities1-simple
inequalities2-compound
inequalities3-sam
problem-decomposition
surface-area-rect-prism
combinatorics-permutation
combinatorics-combination
ds-intro
contracts-tables					; programming
contracts-visualizations			; programming
bar-and-pie-charts
data-cycle
probability-inference				; DS
choosing-your-dataset				; DS
histograms-visualize
histograms-interpret		; DS
measures-of-center					; DS
box-plots							; DS
standard-deviation					; DS
scatter-plots 						; DS
ethics-privacy-and-bias				; DS
data-collection						; DS
functions-with-lookups 				; programming
composing-table-operations			; DS, programming
table-functions-dr 					; DS, programmimg
advanced-visualizations				; DS
filtering-and-building		 		; DS, programming
grouped-samples						; DS, programming
correlations						; DS
linear-regression					; DS
checking-your-work					; DS, programming
threats-to-validity					; DS
