== Implementing the build process using Makefile(s)

The build was originally implementated as a long Bash script
`build-pathway`, but
following 
link:https://github.com/bootstrapworld/curriculum/issues/467[Issue
467], 
has been rewritten as a more maintainable collection of
Makefiles that calls much smaller subroutine-like scripts.

The `Makefile` resides at the top dir, and a build is initiated
by calling `make`, possibly with the following options:

- `BOOK=yes` to generate the individual and workbook PDFs
- `LINKCHECK=yes` to verify all the internal and external links
  used
- `NATLANG=<natlang>` to generate the docs in a language
  different from the default `en-us`, e.g., `es-mx`
- `SEMESTER=<season>` to identify the season, e.g., `fall`
- `YEAR=<year>` to identify the year, e.g., `2023`

The top-level `Makefile` includes `Makefile.all`, which resides
in `lib/maker` alongside all the other auxiliary makefiles and
programs used by the make process.

`Makefile.all` calls two makefiles in order: `Makefile.phase1`
and `Makefile.phase2`. Both makefiles use `make` functions to
create a set of related rules, as the number of rules cannot be
determined beforehand. Furthermore, we use two makefiles to run
two phases of the build, because the sources for the (generated)
rules of the second phase cannot be determined until the first
phase is done. We need only two sequential makefiles.

=== make, phase 1

`Makefile.phase1` initializes the `distribution/` directory, with
subdir `en-us/`, which has subdirs `lib/`, `extlib/`, `lessons/`,
`courses/`. It also zeroes out the various temp files in
`en-us/.cached`, which contain lists of files that will
eventually fed as a batch to various processing scripts. We will
mention these batch files as they come up in the process.

Using generated make rules, `distribution/en-us/courses/` is
populated with copies of the pathways, and
`distribution/en-us/lessons/` with copies of the lessons. If a
lesson allows multiple proglangs (e.g., `pyret`, `wescheme`,
`codap`, etc.), it is duplicated for each such proglang, with the
proglang added as a suffix, except for `pyret` and `none`, which
do not get a suffix.

The courses and lessons in the distribution are "massaged" to
create `solution-pages/` alongside any `pages/` subdirs, and to
move any shadowing files specifically meant for the prevailing
proglang to overwrite files that are generic or meant for other
proglangs. The massaging is done by two external scripts:
`massage-distribution-lesson.sh` and `massage-course.sh`. Both these
scripts make use of a program `collect-workbook-pages.lua` to
identify within each lesson (or lesson-like entity like
front-matter and back-matter in a course) all the pages that are
eligible to go into the workbook -- the so-called workbook pages.

After populating (or updating) the `en-us/{courses,lessons}`,
`Makefile.phase1` collects all the exercises in the lessons
(these are specific exercise directives used in the adoc source
of the lessons). These are placed in `.cached/` subdirs in the
individual lesson `pages/`.

In addition, phase 1 also takes care of creating the HTML version
of the bilingual glossary file, and adds it to the batch file
`$PUPPETEER_INPUT`. `$PUPPETEER_INPUT` will eventually contain
all the HTML files that will need to be converted into PDF pages.

=== make, phase 2

After phase 1 is done, `Makefile.phase2` picks up the next phase.
It identifies the different kinds of `.adoc` files (already
copied under `{lessons, courses}` in the `distribution`, and
creates make rules for converting these to `.asc` files using the
Racket-based preprocessor. This is accomplished by updating three
batch files: `$ADOCABLES_INPUT`, `$ADOC_INPUT` and a third
`$ADOC_POSTPROC_*_INPUT` file whose name depends on whether the
`adoc` file in question is a lesson plan, a pathway narrative
file, a pathway glossary file, a pathway resources file, a
pathway-independent file, or a workbook page (which can be in
both lessons and pathways).

After these batch files are updated, an external script
`run-asciidoctor.sh` converts the files in `$ADOCABLES_INPUT` to
their corresponding `.asc` (also an asciidoc file), using
adocables-preproc.rkt, an adoc preprocessor written in Racket. It
then uses the $ADOC_INPUT batch file containing the list of .asc's 
as input to Asciidoctor.
A set of .html files results alongside
the .asc's.

The preprocessing also collects the primitive functions used (if
any) in each of the lesson pages, and notes down the lesson
prerequisites for each lesson.

If the make var `BOOK` is set, the preproc rules include a
further set of rules that add lines to `$PUPPETEER_INPUT`, so
that the HTML files posited by the preproc (but only finally
created after the postproc) will also become candidates for PDF
conversion.

This completes the preproc subphase. After it is done, the
following bunch of other rules come into play (in no temporal
order):

1. The primitives are then consolidated per lesson, using the
   external script `collect-primitives.lua`.

2. The `$ADOC_POSTPROC_*_INPUT` batch files are now used by a
   postprocessing program, `do-postproc.lua`, that creates the
   final html or shtml file in the correct directory (i.e.,
   alongside the original .adoc files). In addition,
   Google-drive-ready copies of these (s)html files are also
   created.

3. If the make variable `LINKCHECK` is set, a make rule uses the
   external script `do-link-check.sh` to verify that all the
   internal and external links used in the documents really do
   exist.

4. An external script `make-pathways-tocs.lua` collects the ToC
   info for all the courses into `en-us/pathway-tocs.js`.

After the primitive generation rule (1 above) is done, a rule
calls an external script `make-dependency-graph.lua` that gathers
the generated info about the lesson primitives and prereqs to
create a global lesson dependency graph in
`en-us/dependency-graph.js`.

An external script `make-images-js.lua` collects all the image
information from the lessons into a global image glossary at
`en-us/images.js`.

After the postproc rule (2 above) is done, if the make variable
`BOOK` is set, the batch file `$PUPPETEER_INPUT` is used by a Node
program `html2pdf.js` to create all the individual page PDFs.

After these individual PDFs are available, and again only if
`BOOK` is set, a make rule uses the external program
`make-workbook-pages.lua` to go into each course, collects all
its constituent lessons' workbook and exercise pages into six
course-specific list of pages for the six different types of
workbooks. The same rule then calls the Node program
`makeWorkbook.js` to create each course's set of workbook PDFs.

// last modified 2023-03-06
