== Rearranging subdirs within the distribution directories

The build process starts by copying (the English versions of) the
pathway directories to `distribution/en-us/courses` and the
lesson directories to `distribution/en-us/lessons`, sometimes
creating multiple versions, as described in the previous section,
to accommodate multiple proglangs as needed. (The other natlang
versions go the corresponding subdir in `distribution`, e.g.,
`es-mx`, and their treatment follows a similar route, with
`en-us` replaced.)

===  Modifying the distribution lesson directory

After copying a pathway into its distribution lesson directory with fixed
proglang, the build process drills down its directories to see if
there are any proglang-specific shadowing subdirectories. These
are named for the proglang, e.g., `pyret`, `wescheme`, etc.  The
contents of the relevant proglang subdir are copied to the
containing directory. All the other proglang subdirs are deleted.
This ensures that all the files in the course directory, at
whatever depth, have content appropriate to its proglang.

Next, if a subdirectory called `pages` occurs at any level --
typically these are in the `front-matter`, `back-matter` and
`resources` subdirs --, the build ensure that a subdir called
`solution-pages` is alongside it. Furthermore, it ensures that
its contents are the same as the `pages` subdir, except for such
files that are pre-existent in it (from the repo).

Next the build looks for `workbook-pages.txt` inside these
`pages` subdir. A sanitized version -- removing
comments -- of this is placed in
`.cached/.workbook-pages.txt.kp`, and an even sparer version --
removing landscape/portrait information -- is placed in
`.cached/.workbook-pages-ls.txt.kp`.

=== Modifying the course directory

Course dirs undergo the same modifications above for
proglang and solution-pages. Note here that the subdirs
`front-matter`, `back-matter`, and `resources` may contain
`pages/` subdirs with the appropriate `workbook-pages.txt`, and
these are mined to get `.cached/.workbook-pages.txt.kp` and
`.cached/.workbook-pages-ls.txt.kp` as well, just as for the lessons.

// last modified 2023-03-01
